forgiveness helps to change even the coldest hearts, help me to become the more better person , 
by just being there with me as someone i can trust blindly and thats all i want with my true heart.. 

the truth ? i like you . A lot . you make me happy . you make me laugh. you are smart . you are different .
you are little crazy , and awkward and your smile alone can make my day .

Genuine people dont come around too often . if you find somebody real enough to stay true, keep them close .

i look upon you as someone who can listen to me , support me and encourage me to refill myself to again fight with full strength with the odds.

A friend is someone we turn to when our spirits need a lift..

A true friend unbosoms freely, advises justly, assists readily, adventures boldly, takes all patiently, 
defends courageously, and continues a friend unchangeably.     

Find someone who openly communicates their feelings. 
Someone who realizes that youre not perfect and never expects you to be. 

just your presence gives me the inspiration to stand and fight all the troubles , if you ll leave me alone i m afraid that it will
be lost..

my heart says that you ll give me one last chance..thats all i am expecting..and i will wait for this..

loosing the loved ones is the suffering

cant u just say ,if u r sad u can share with me..if you are happy you can share too..

i just want to help those who hates the world to love it once more ..

i am jealous of the weaks, if i were weak , i too could have a group to rely on ..
i want to be weak..

what i have learnt in my life and try to always follow is always give your 100% , 
so that later you can at least dont feel that if if you would had tried a bit more , you could had acheived that..

i understand that the more i tries , the more you repeatedly refuses , the more you feel hurt ,anxious and frustated,
and yea its obviously more compared to what i feel..

i know the reason of your refusal , you dont want to be again in that poor state you recovered after breaking your soul, 
but life is all about this only , it gives us always what it thinks is necessary that we are lacking for our survival in this harsh world..

wahtever the reason , we should love the life and never complain for what we dont have , bcz always something more better is waiting for us in 
the path of life..

Sometimes i love the feeling that i have by irritating you :P but ultimately the happy you is what i desire from my innerheart

For maximum attention, nothing beats a good mistake.

I am not saying am sorry because I have wronged you but I am saying sorry because sometimes people are more important than my ego.
	
really afraid that how will i sit here , when you will be gone ...

Why is it everything I love is either unhealthy, addicting, or has multiple restraining orders against me?

The trouble with learning from experience is that you never graduate.

A daughter is real child , boys are just the beta versions :P

how do you politely ask someone to shut up 
	chup be.. :P

